Import module 'jobctrl' to launch and interact with background processes by
prepending system commands with '&', or to kill foreground tasks that are preventing
you from continuing with your work and are just too stubborn to die with the usual ctrl+C.

Killing foreground tasks
------------------------

Launch IPython instance, run a blocking command::

    [Q:/ipython]|1> import jobctrl
    [Q:/ipython]|2> cat

Observe that it starts blocking.

Now launch a new IPython prompt and kill the 'cat' process::

    IPython 0.8.3.svn.r2919   [on Py 2.5]
    [Q:/ipython]|1> import jobctrl
    [Q:/ipython]|2> %tasks
    6020: 'cat ' (Q:\ipython)
    [Q:/ipython]|3> %kill
    SUCCESS: The process with PID 6020 has been terminated.
    [Q:/ipython]|4>

(you don't need to specify PID for %kill if only one task is running)

Note that only the processes that are launched when 'jobctrl' is enabled are affected.

Background jobs
---------------

See the example below. "IPython job" object is just a very thin wrapper over
subprocess.Popen object, with an added __repr__ and "go" method.

::

    [ipython]|1> import jobctrl
    [ipython]|2> &ls C*
             <2> <IPython job "ls C*">
    [ipython]|3> &ls e*
             <3> <IPython job "ls e*">
    [ipython]|4> &ls e*
             <4> <IPython job "ls e*">
    [ipython]|5> &ls RE*
             <5> <IPython job "ls RE*">

    [ipython]|7> _2.go
    -----------> _2.go()
    ChangeLog
    [ipython]|8> _3.go
    -----------> _3.go()
    eggsetup.py
    [ipython]|9> _5.go
    -----------> _5.go()
    README
    README_Windows.txt
    [ipython]|10> _4.go
    ------------> _4.go()
    eggsetup.py

Note how "jobs" are just objects in the output history. You can use all the
subprocess.Popen methods on the object, but this example just uses "go".

See http://docs.python.org/library/subprocess.html#popen-objects

Net radio example
-----------------

Here's another example: I want to make a macro radio_trance that launches VLC on
a net radio stream. I have the "vlc" alias that points to the actual binary of
vlc, so I launch it via the alias::

    [ipython]|1> import jobctrl
    [ipython]|2> vlc http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls

But this blocks the ipython window, while I want to listen to it on the background!

I check out the command history to get the expanded version of the command::

    [ipython]|3> hist
    1: import jobctrl
    2: _ip.system("q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls")
    3: _ip.magic("hist ")

I copy-paste the command string from line #2 (and add '&' to make it a background process::

    [ipython]|4> &q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls
             <4> <IPython job "q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls">

(''' Note that this is unnecessarily hard'''. In fact, with the new recursive
alias expansion, you can do this simply with aliases without having to resort to
manual copy-paste)

So far so good, I can hear the music playing in the background! Now I'll make a
macro that both imports jobctrl and launches vlc (lines 1 and 4), and %store it::

    [ipython]|5> hist
    1: import jobctrl
    2: _ip.system("q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls")
    3: _ip.magic("hist ")
    4: _ip.startjob("q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls")
    5: _ip.magic("hist ")

    [ipython]|6> macro radio_trance 1 4
    Macro `radio_trance` created. To execute, type its name (without quotes).
    Macro contents:
    import jobctrl
    _ip.startjob("q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls")

    [ipython]|7> store radio_trance
    Stored 'radio_trance' (Macro)

Now I restart ipython and try the macro::

    Q:\ipython>python IPython.py -p sh
    Py 2.5 (r25:51908, Sep 19 2006, 09:52:17) [MSC v.1310 32 bit (Intel)] IPy 0.7.3.svn
    [ipython]|1> radio_trance
             <1> Executing Macro...
             <3> <IPython job "q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls">
    [ipython]|4> hist
    1: radio_trance
    2: import jobctrl
    3: _ip.startjob("q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/trance.pls")
    4: _ip.magic("hist ")

And verify that it works.

Killing jobs
------------

::

    [ipython]|1> &rad_trance
             <1> <IPython job "q:/opt/VLC/vlc.exe http://di.fm/mp3/harddance.pls " PID=196>
    [ipython]|2> # this music is boring me.... I want it to stop right now!
    [ipython]|3> _1.kill
    -----------> _1.kill()
    SUCCESS: The process with PID 196 has been terminated.

Finding out more
----------------

See the source of `jobctrl.py <https://github.com/ipython/ipython/blob/0.10.2/IPython/Extensions/jobctrl.py>`_
