I love IPython but really enjoy IDE syntax highlighting and custom colors. This functionality is now available with the qtconsole in IPython 0.11! Multi-line editing and syntax highlighting IPython is my go-to editor.

Here are basic instructions to create a custom style theme for IPython. 

Happy theming! :)


----

Syntax highlighting depends on the [http://pygments.org Pygments] package.

Styles are a .py file stored in: site-packages/pygments/styles/

The element you want to color is called a "token".
See the list of available [http://pygments.org/docs/tokens/ tokens]

Make sure to include all the tokens in a line:
from pygments.token import <your tokens>

The name of the style class is particular. Use the same name as your file name, first letter capitalized + "Style"
Example:
- darkblue.py, class DarkblueStyle(Style)

CAUTION!
I don't think all file names work. Using underscores gave me problems. I don't know what else may be prohibited.
This doesn't work: dark_blue.py, class Dark_blueStyle(Style)

Example:
Create file:
  mycolors.py 


Stored in:
  site-packages/pygments/styles/

  from pygments.style import Style
  from pygments.token import Text, Number
  # You could also use:
  # from pygments.token import *
  
  class MycolorsStyle(Style):
  
    background_color = '#000'
    highlight_color = '#ffff55'
  
    styles = {
        Text: "#A7ADDB",
        Number.Float: "#2200FF",
        Number.Integer: "#E5FF00"
    }


Run the style with this line:

  ipython qtconsole --style=mycolors

or, set the option in your ipython_qtconsole_config.py file:

  # If not empty, use this Pygments style for syntax highlighting. Otherwise, the
  # style sheet is queried for Pygments style information.
  c.IPythonWidget.syntax_style = u'mycolors'