FAQ
===

This is the IPython Frequently Asked Questions page.

We are in the process of moving this type of Q&A to the IPython tag on
`stackoverflow <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ipython>`_. Please post any new questions
there.

.. contents::
   :local:


Q. Running IPython against multiple versions of Python
------------------------------------------------------

I would like to know if there is an easy way to install parallel versions of
ipython ? Actually, I would like to be able to use ipython with python 2.4
which is the default on my machine, and with python2.5 (compiled by hand); is
changing the python interpreter in the ipython script the only required change
? (I was thinking about having ipython with the default interpreter and
ipython2.5 using the python2.5 interpreter) ?

**Answer**: You can install IPython against various interpreters by using the following call::

  $ python2.4 setup.py install --prefix=$HOME/usr
  $ python2.5 setup.py install --prefix=$HOME/usr

In this case, the second call will overwrite the startup script of the first in
$HOME/usr/bin, but those are the same. The important point is that each Python
will find the IPython imports under
$HOME/usr/lib/python2.X/site-packages/IPython, and assuming you have set up
your $PYTHONPATH variable accordingly, this will work. The final step is to
have aliases to call each of the IPython versions quickly, those can be defined
as (using tcsh syntax)::

  alias ip4 "python2.4 $HOME/usr/bin/ipython"
  alias ip5 "python2.5 $HOME/usr/bin/ipython"

or you can just have two copies of the ipython startup script named differently
and with their first line changed to point to the actual interpreter.


Q. Can IPython run under IronPython/PyPy/Jython/other Python interpreters?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Answer**: The terminal-based shell should run on any interpreter which complies with
the necessary version of Python. IPython 0.11 requires Python 2.6
or above, and as of June 2011, IronPython and PyPy both support this.

The most likely problems would come from Readline and from using the undocumented
sys._getframe() function. On Windows we ship our own `pyreadline <pyreadline.html>`_,
which might also work under IronPython. PyPy ships its own readline module,
which should now work.

If IPython does not work under a supported interpreter, please
`file a bug <https://github.com/ipython/ipython/issues>`_.

Q. IPython crashes under OS X when using the arrow keys
-------------------------------------------------------
Under some circumstances, using the arrow keys to navigate your input history can cause a complete crash of the Python interpreter.

**Answer**: This is due to a bug in the readline library from the official builds. There are a few solutions you can take:

1. Use a different Python version from Apple's default (MacPython or Fink have been reported to work)
2. You can disable in your ipythonrc file the following lines by commenting them out::

    readline_parse_and_bind "\e[A": history-search-backward
    readline_parse_and_bind "\e[B": history-search-forward

   You will lose searching in your history with the arrow keys, but at least Python won't crash.

Q. Does IPython play well with Windows?
---------------------------------------

Yes, it most definitely does! See IpythonOnWindows for some things that should be noted, though.


Q. What is the best way to install IPython?
-------------------------------------------

* The classic ``python setup.py install`` still works, of course, and is
  recommended for Linux boxes where you have root privileges.
* On windows you'll probably want to run the .exe installer to get the
  shortcuts and ipython.py in \python25\scripts.
* ``easy_install ipython==dev`` is the easiest way to install the SVN trunk version.
* ``easy_install ipython`` is a quick way to get ipython without downloading or
  unzipping anything manually, but you'll miss windows shortcuts, and
  documentation (man pages, pdf...) will not be where it normally is.
* If you want to run the latest ipython instead of an older version provided
  with your linux distro, and don't want to remove/mess with the already
  existing version, don't have root privileges to install ipython, or just want
  to run multiple ipython versions for some reason, just untar the source
  distribution somewhere and launch ipython.py.


Q. Why do I get garbage characters when long information is displayed by the pager?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Answer**: The color escapes used by IPython are not correctly interpreted by
default by many common pagers ('less' included). The manual describes here the
problem and its solution in detail, but the short version is that your bashrc
file should contain::

  export PAGER=less
  export LESS=-r


Q. Am I doing something foolish, or is this a limitation of using ipython with doctest?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Answer**: The latter, I'm afraid, but there's a workaround. The reason, deep
down, is a clash between ipython's modification of sys.displayhook so you get
nice output prompts, and the fact that the exec builtin is internally hardcoded
to run sys.displayhook. So ipython collides with doctest (which uses 'exec')
and all hell breaks loose.

Here's the workaround. First, your error (I called your file 'dtest')::

  In [5]: doctest.testmod(dtest)
  Out[5]: 1
  **********************************************************************
  File "dtest.py", line 8, in dtest
  Failed example:
      x()
  Expected:
      1
  Got nothing
  **********************************************************************
  1 items had failures:
     1 of   3 in dtest
  ***Test Failed*** 1 failures.
  Out[5]: (1, 3)

Now the workaround::

  In [6]: iphook = sys.displayhook
  In [7]: sys.displayhook = sys.__displayhook__
  In [8]: doctest.testmod(dtest)
  *** DocTestRunner.merge: 'dtest' in both testers; summing outcomes.
  (0, 3)

Now you can reactivate ipython's displayhook if you want::

  In [9]: sys.displayhook = iphook

You could wrap this little sys.displayhook dance in a utility function to ease things up.


Q. Can IPython run under IronPython? It would be great to have access to all of the .Net libraries via IPython. If not are there any plans to make this possible?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


At the moment it is a bit of effort. You have to:
* compile IronPython from https://github.com/IronLanguages/main/tree/ipy-2.7-maint
* install pyreadline from https://github.com/paweljasinski/pyreadline
* install ipython from https://github.com/ipython/ipython

In addition you have to:
* replace _pyexpect.py with https://github.com/paweljasinski/ipython/blob/ironpython-hack/IPython/external/pexpect/_pexpect.py

Your HOME environment variable must be set.

You have to provide either -X:Frames or -X:FullFrames as ipy.exe parameter

Q. I'm really interested still but my question isn't here... where can I get support for specific problems?
---------------
As mentioned at the top: 
We are in the process of moving this type of Q&A to the IPython tag on
`stackoverflow <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ipython>`_. Please post any new questions
there.