
This page summarizes how to set up the IPython notebook for a the upcoming tutorials at the PyData and PyCon conferences.

.. note::

   Do **not** plan to use Amazon EC2 to run the software remotely as conference Wifi is notoriously unreliable.
   Ensure that you have a working local install. 

IPython Notebook and Qt Console Setup
=====================================

Windows setup instructions
--------------------------
* EPDFree: http://download.enthought.com/epd_free/epd_free-7.2-2-win-x86.msi
* PyQt - http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/static/Downloads/PyQt4/PyQt-Py2.7-x86-gpl-4.9.1-1.exe
* pygments: ``easy_install pygments``

Installing PyQt on OS X and Linux
---------------------------------

**Note: PyQt is NOT required for the pandas tutorial**

Installation of PyQt from source on OS X and Linux is much more involved. 

OS X: ``http://www.oak-tree.us/blog/index.php/2009/05/12/pyqt-mac``

Pandas Tutorial Requirements and Files
======================================

The majority of the PyCon 2012 and PyData pandas tutorials will be carried out using the `IPython HTML notebook <http://ipython.org/ipython-doc/dev/interactive/htmlnotebook.html>`__. If you arrive at the tutorial unable to run the notebook on your laptop, you will be disappointed (!), so take a few minutes to ensure that you have all of the packages below installed and everything works. If you wish to be "on the bleeding edge", feel free to install the latest development version of the notebook from `GitHub <http://github.com/ipython/ipython>`__. 

Required packages
-----------------

* Included in EPDFree (available for Windows, Linux, and Mac)

  * Python 2.7.2
  * NumPy 1.6.1
  * SciPy 0.9
  * matplotlib 1.1.0
  * IPython 0.12
  * pyzmq
  * tornado >= 2.1


* pygments ``easy_install pygments``
* pandas >= 0.7.0 (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pandas)
* python-dateutil 1.5, ``easy_install http://pypi.python.org/packages/source/p/python-dateutil/python-dateutil-1.5.tar.gz``

Verifying your IPython Notebook setup is working
------------------------------------------------

Open a command prompt and run ``ipython notebook --pylab=inline``. Navigate to the displayed web address to connect to the notebook server. 

Installing pandas on Windows
----------------------------
Please use an appropriate binary installer from http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pandas. Verify that pandas can be imported successfully: ``import pandas``

Installing pandas on OS X / Linux
---------------------------------

Using ``easy_install`` or ``pip`` should install pandas out of the box on source. Please contact me immediately (wesmckinn A@T gmail D0T com) if something goes wrong.

Data files for pandas tutorial
------------------------------

Closer to the tutorial on March 7 I will post a link to an archive containing data sets and IPython notebook files that we will be using for the tutorial. Please ensure that you have downloaded this archive prior to arriving at the tutorial due to the unreliability of conference Wifi. 
