'''Some of the information on this page may be out of date.''' None of the core developers regularly use Windows. Feel free to update this information, and let us know about problems and solutions.

----

IPython works well with Windows, even as a replacement for that clunky old cmd.exe command prompt. There are some considerations, though.

* You will want to get [http://ipython.org/pyreadline.html pyreadline] to get readline functionality (tab completion etc.)

* Recent versions of IPython (as of at least 0.12.1) use %USERPROFILE% (typically C:\Users\<username> under Vista and 7, or C:\Documents and Settings\<username> under XP) and store your configuration in a %USERPROFILE%\.ipython directory. Previous versions of IPython have required manually setting a %HOME% environment variable. 
** If you have non-ascii characters in your username and you get a UnicodeError crash on startup, you may need to manually set %HOME% to a directory with an ASCII-only name anyway (a directory like C:\home may be good enough if you're the only user of your computer). This has not been tested on recent versions of IPython, however.

* By default, IPython uses ConHost.exe, the normal Windows console also used by e.g. cmd.exe. This works well enough, but if you'd like better copy/paste support and the ability to horizontally resize the window, you may want to use an alternative. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/console/ Console] is one option (see also [[Cookbook/Using IPython with Console2]]);  [http://code.google.com/p/conemu-maximus5/ ConEmu] is another.

* You should use / as path separator instead of \, whenever possible. Tab completion just works better that way. \ works ok if you don't need proper tab completion.

* If you want "IPython here" shell extension functionality (familiar from Win32 PowerToys "Command prompt here"), see [http://lists.ipython.scipy.org/pipermail/ipython-user/2007-October/004746.html this thread].

== Troubleshooting ==

=== Reinstalling/upgrading IPython manually ===

Sometimes when installing a new version of IPython, you need to remove old IPython files to get a clean slate.

To delete all traces of old IPython installation(s), delete the following files (adjust for your python installation):

* C:\Python25\Scripts\ipython*
* C:\Python25\Lib\site-packages\ipython* (also the directories).

Delete start menu shortcuts:

 Start menu -> All programs -> right click on IPython, choose delete.

Install new IPython, launch it, run %upgrade.

=== Doctest problems ===

There is a problem with "doctest" working on Windows with PyReadline.  Please see [http://bugs.python.org/issue1708316 Python bug 1708316: doctest work with Windows PyReadline] for details and a quick fix to "doctest.py"

=== Firewall problems ===

There also seems to be a small issue regarding firewalls preventing any UI from connecting to a kernel.  If you receive a message similar to:

 $>ipython3 kernel
 Assertion failed: Connection refused (..\..\..\src\signaler.cpp:260)

(Optionally followed by a Windows program crash handler)

Then try disabling your firewall.  If that fixes the issue, you'll need to add python.exe (and possibly pythonw.exe) as a trusted application in your firewall software.