Here is a brief list of other projects using IPython.  If you know of more, feel free to add them, and if IPython contributes to a publication, please use our [http://ipython.org/citing.html ready-made citation entry].

== List of (some) IPython compatible kernels == 

* [http://nbviewer.ipython.org/url/jdj.mit.edu/~stevenj/IJulia%20Preview.ipynb IJulia]
* [http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gibiansky/IHaskell/blob/master/demo/IHaskell.ipynb IHaskell]
* [http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/BayardRock/IfSharp/blob/master/Feature%20Notebook.ipynb IFSharp]
* [http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/minad/iruby/blob/master/IRuby-Example.ipynb IRuby]
* [https://github.com/takluyver/igo IGo]
* [https://github.com/mattpap/IScala IScala ]
* [http://nbviewer.ipython.org/gist/sn6uv/8381447 IMathics]
* [https://github.com/mattpap/IAldor IAldor ]
* [http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/bitbucket.org/ipre/calico/raw/master/notebooks/Calico%20Overview.ipynb Calico Project]
* [https://github.com/neomantra/lua_ipython_kernel Lua Kernel]

To read to create IPython kernel :

[http://andrew.gibiansky.com/blog/ipython/ipython-kernels/ Ihaskell Creator blog post]



== Scientific computing projects ==

* The [http://nengo.ca/docs/html/advanced/ipython_notebook.html Nengo] project for simulating large-scale neural systems is the first (that we know of) to integrate with the new IPython notebook.

* The [http://www.simplecv.org SimpleCV] computer vision project ships with an integrated and customized IPython shell.

* The [http://www.jmodelica.org JModelica] system for dynamical systems simulation and modeling uses IPython and matplotlib for its interactive analysis and visualization.

* The University of Colorado's Mechanical Engineering Department, as part of the Denver Aerosol Sources and Health (DASH) study, [http://www.microsoft.com/casestudies/Case_Study_Detail.aspx?CaseStudyID=4000007661 uses IPython] to parallelize the data analysis.

* The python binding of the [http://igraph.sourceforge.net igraph library for complex network research] uses IPython for its interactive command-line interface.

* The [http://www.sardana-controls.org Sardana] system, part of the [http://www.cells.es/ ALBA Synchrotron Radiation Facility] control system.

* [http://ascend.cheme.cmu.edu/ ASCEND] embeds an IPython shell in its PyGTK GUI, using code from the Accerciser project. [http://ascendwiki.cheme.cmu.edu/Python_console_support More details].

* [http://www.vni.com/products/imsl/pyimslstudio/overview.php PyIMSL Studio], by Visual Numerics, is a set of tools that expose the classic IMSL numerical libraries to Python, and ships with IPython, NumPy, SciPy and matplotlib as the core Python environment.

* The [http://trilinos.sandia.gov Trilinos] project has Python bindings that can be used effectively via IPython, see [http://ipython.scipy.org/talks/Trilinos-IPython.pdf these slides] for details.

* The [http://www.stsci.edu/resources/software_hardware/pyraf PyRAF] environment for astronomical image analysis, from the [http://www.stsci.edu/ Space Telescope Science Institute], will include in its next official release an IPython-based interface.  Currently (May'05) this functionality is only available via SVN PyRAF.

* The [http://casa.nrao.edu/demo1.shtml CASA interactive shell] from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory is built on top of IPython.

* The [http://cxc.harvard.edu/ciao Chandra Interactive Analysis of Observations (CIAO)] environment from the Chandra X-Ray Observatory.

* The [http://ganga.web.cern.ch/ganga Ganga] system, developed at CERN for Grid job control for the [http://lhcb.web.cern.ch/lhcb LHCb] and [http://atlas.web.cern.ch/Atlas/index.html ATLAS] experiments, uses IPython for its [http://ganga.web.cern.ch/ganga/user/v4/CLIP CLIP interface].

* The [http://root.cern.ch/drupal/content/discovering-root ROOT project]: a framework for data processing, born at CERN, at the heart of the research on high-energy physics. See for example [http://root.cern.ch/drupal/content/ipython-notebooks-and-root-0 this post].

* [http://www.sagemath.org/ SAGE], a system for algebraic number theory and arithmetic geometry, uses IPython for its interactive command-line interface.

* [http://www.singular.uni-kl.de/ Singular], another computer algebra system, also offers an IPython interface (Singular is also accessible as a SAGE subsystem).

* The [http://pymerase.sourceforge.net/ Pymerase] project for microarray gene expression databases, exposes an IPython shell in its iPymerase mode.

* The PyMAD project, where IPython is used to control a neutron spectrometer at the CEA-Grenoble and the Institut Laue Langevin in France.  See [[Projects-using-IPython:-PyMAD]] for details.

* The [http://www.ska.ac.za Square Kilometre Array South Africa] project uses IPython as an advanced user interface to their radio telescopes, including the currently operational KAT-7 precursor array and the future MeerKAT telescope. A live demonstration of the interface can be seen in [http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4881233 Maciej Fijalkowski's talk] at PyCon 2011.

* [http://code.google.com/p/rdkit/wiki/IPythonIntegration rdkit], a chemistry toolkit, integrates with IPython to display molecular structures.

* The [http://opengrads.org/wiki/index.php?title=Python_Interface_to_GrADS PyGrads] Python interface to the OpenGrADS tool for access, manipulation, and visualization of earth science data.

* The [http://tw.rpi.edu/web/project/ECOOP ECOOP] project is using IPython to develop the software library for its [http://tw.rpi.edu/web/doc/ICES_2012 use-case] .

* The [http://www.ampl.com/ AMPL] modeling system for large-scale mathematical optimization can integrate with IPython with the help of AMPL magics provided by the [https://github.com/vitaut/iampl IAMPL] project.

* [http://www.qiime.org QIIME] (canonically pronounced "chime") stands for Quantitative Insights Into Microbial Ecology. QIIME is an open source software package for comparison and analysis of microbial communities, primarily based on high-throughput amplicon sequencing data (such as SSU rRNA) generated on a variety of platforms, but also supporting analysis of other types of data (such as shotgun metagenomic data).

* [https://github.com/klusta-team/klustaviewa KlustaViewa] is a Python GUI software for the manual step of spike sorting, which aims at extracting spiking activity from raw extracellular multielectrode recordings. An IPython console can be opened in the program to let the user perform his own analyses on the data.


== In teaching ==

* The Software Carpentry Project, led by Greg Wilson, [http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2013/03/using-notebook-as-a-teaching-tool.html uses the IPython Notebook as one of its core technologies].

* The [http://ged.msu.edu/angus/beacon-2012/ BEACON course for computational biologists], taught by [http://ged.msu.edu/ Titus Brown at Michigan State University].

* The NIH-funded course on Next-Generation Sequencing, also taught by Titus at MSU, is also [https://github.com/ngs-docs/ngs-notebooks based on IPython Notebooks].

* Tom Softbaugh's [http://www.softbaugh.com/courses/python1/ Software development in Python] course.

* [http://www.qiime.org QIIME] Workshops are taught using tutorials written to run using IPython Notebooks.

== Web frameworks and other systems ==

* [http://readthedocs.org/docs/scrapy/en/latest/topics/shell.html Scrapy], a web-scraping framework, uses IPython for its interactive shell if it's installed.

* The [http://pitz.tplus1.com/ pitz] distributed task/bug tracking system.

* Nicolas Rougier implemented a [http://www.loria.fr/~rougier/pyglet-terminal.html pyglet Python terminal] that can optionally use IPython.

* The [http://pylonshq.com/ Pylons] web framework can optionally use IPython if installed.

* As of Jan'06 ([http://code.djangoproject.com/changeset/1930 Changeset 1930], to be precise), IPython is the admin shell for the [http://www.djangoproject.com/ Django] web framework.

* You can use IPython to debug Zope and Plone, as explained in [http://michaelthornhill.blogspot.com/2005/08/team-development-with-plone-zope-zeo.html these] [http://michaelthornhill.blogspot.com/2005/09/how-to-debug-zopeplone-with-ide.html two] pages.

* The [http://schevo.org/ Schevo] database can be [http://orbtech.com/blog/schevo/got-ipython explored with IPython].

* The [http://kamaelia.sourceforge.net/AxonShell.html Axon Shell] in the BBC's Kamaelia project is an embedded IPython instance.

* As of revision 53 (Oct 11/05), the new [http://www.turbogears.org/ Turbo Gears] framework can optionally use IPython as its shell.  [http://www.twistedrails.org/blog/2005/11/13/editing-modelpy-from-ipython-via-tg-admin-shell/ This post] has some details on how it works.

* [http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/movpy Movable Python], by Michael Foord and Bruno Thoorens, is a way of building portable Python environments which uses IPython for its interactive features.

* The [http://livelogix.net/logix Logix] programming system integrates with IPython for interactive work.

* The [http://visualisation.tudelft.nl/Projects/iVR iVR toolkit] provides IPython as its shell in interactive Virtual Reality applications.

* The [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pudb PuDB] debugger allows the use of IPython for its interactive shell.

* The [http://web.mit.edu/stardev/cluster StarCluster] EC2 cluster computing tool has a [http://web.mit.edu/star/cluster/docs/latest/plugins/ipython.html plugin] for configuring a parallel IPython cluster and notebook server. StarCluster also uses IPython for its interactive shell ($starcluster shell). 

* [https://ssl.drqueue.org/redmine/projects/drqueueipython DrQueueIPython], a Python port of DrQueue, the open source distributed render queue, which uses IPython for task management and network communication.

* The [http://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm JetBrains PyCharm IDE] added IPython support in version 2.0.

* The IdleX extensions to Python's basic IDE [http://idlex.sourceforge.net/ipython.html support an IPython backend] from version 0.8.

* The [http://www.getwindmill.com/ Windmill testing framework] uses IPython for its shell control.

* [https://github.com/cwsoft/WSPPDE#readme WSPPDE] provides a portable Python 2.7.4 development environment for MS Windows&trade; including IPython 0.13.2, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib and Pandas in a one click package.

* [https://notebookcloud.appspot.com NotebookCloud] is a free and open source web service for creating and managing IPython Notebook servers on Amazon's EC2.