

Some detailed feedback provided by Gaël Varoquaux on the scikits-learn list regarding areas where the current apis are either insufficient or not convenient enough for use of our parallel machinery in cluster environments where engine launch is controlled by PBS/SGE type systems, and system use is billed accordingly.


Now let me expose the technical problem, as far as I understand it. This
may be outdated if there have been major changes since the scipy
conference. I may also be slightly incorrect with the details. But this
is the big picture as I get it.

* Our jobs are typically data processing jobs that require no
  communication, grab large data as an input, run on it, and spit out the
  result. In the configuration that we were discussing in the
  original thread there might be a large spread in the computing time
  between the different jobs (for instance due to varying parameters
  during a cross-validation).

* Our clusters bill per total run time of all the jobs. Some have a
  scheduling service that knows how to dispatch jobs where the data is.
  The pattern of usage is to queue the jobs in the execution queue. The
  data is then be uploaded to the cluster by the cluster engine, or even
  to the right node of the cluster if the cluster is asymmetric. Once the
  data is available for one job, and CPU is available, the cluster engine
  launches the job and starts billing. Once the job is finished, the
  billing for this job ends.

* As far as I know, IPython does not really use this scheduling service,
  and uses the launcher queue to start workers, that then need to be fed the
  jobs. By itself, this does not optimize very well the data transfer. In
  addition, if various jobs have different run times, it can very easily
  lead to extra time being billed on the cluster for two reasons. One is
  that some jobs may finish much earlier than others, and the workers
  should really die as soon as the job is done. The other reason is that as
  jobs become available, workers come up asynchronously. As a user, I can
  choose to wait for all my workers to come up, but this might take a while.
  If I want to dispatch jobs with a greedy strategy, as workers come up, it
  seems to me that I have to write some not completely trivial boiler plate
  code.

* Finally, an extra pain point is that some of the clusters that we work
  on simply kill a job if it take too long. This means that if I bypass
  the cluster's scheduler and try to use long running workers, and
  IPython's scheduler to dispatch job to them, I will most probably have
  my workers killed after they accomplish a few of the jobs.

I lot of the impedance mismatches that I describe above can most probably
be worked around by writing code to make a clever use of IPython and of
the cluster engine together. I am sure that IPython exposes all the right
primitives for this. However, it is a significant investment, and it
seems much easier for me, at the time being, to simply use the queuing
engine as it is meant to be used.

One thing that Min seemed to agree with me, is that an easy feature to
add to IPython that would make our lives easier would be the ability of
workers to commit suicide cleanly once they are done, to avoid consuming
billable resources. It's probably not hard to do, and he seemed to have
this in mind.

The lack of understanding between you and I, if there is any, may come
from different usage pattern. As far as I know, physicists that use
clusters for massive simulations typical have processing going together
with a lot of communication and the setup/tear down is simultaneous
across the grid, and fairly costless. The typical data processing
situation is quite different. This is why we have seen tools like Hadoop
or Disco (http://discoproject.org/) been developed in addition to things
like MPI that answer a different usage pattern. The cluster configuration
that I am describing above is quite common. I have seen it in many labs.
